Grilled Fish 
Epicurious | April 2013 

Nancy Harmon Jenkins
New Mediterranean Diet Cookbook


fork user rating3½
 fork user rating 

50%
would make
it again 

0 reviews 


Yield:
Makes 6 to 8 servings
ingredients

•1 teaspoon finely minced garlic, about 3 cloves
•1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
•1/4 cup fresh lemon juice, orange juice, or dry white wine
•1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar or sherry vinegar
•a pinch of cayenne pepper or hot red pepper flakes (optional)
•1/2 teaspoon ground cumin, or 1 teaspoon or more chopped fresh herbs such as rosemary, dill, parsley, thyme, cilantro, basil, or mint, or 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme or oregano, crumbled
•freshly ground black pepper
•2 pounds fish steaks 
•lemon wedges for garnish

preparation


Combine all the ingredients except fish and lemon wedges and mix well. Using a pastry brush, paint the fish steaks liberally on both sides and set them aside, lightly covered with a piece of aluminum foil, to marinate for at least 30 minutes.

Build up a fire, using good hardwoods if you're cooking in a fireplace or the best hardwood charcoal (not fake-wood briquettes) if you're using a grill. Let the fire burn brightly and die down until you have a nice bed of hot coals or embers. Large pieces of fish can be set directly on the grill, but to prevent smaller ones from falling through and burning up, you may want to use a special grid made for fish.

When you're ready to cook, brush a little plain olive oil on the cooking surface and set it 4 to 6 inches from the source of heat.Arrange the fish steaks so that they have equal access to the heat source. Cook for about 4 to 5 minutes on each side, turning once. Test for doneness—fish should be opaque all the way through—by inserting the tip of a sharp knife near the bone or in the center of a boneless piece of fish. Remove immediately to a hot platter.

The remaining marinade should be heated just to the boiling point and either poured over the cooked fish or passed at the table along with lemon wedges.

Source Information

The New Mediterranean Diet Cookbook

Reprinted with permission from The New Mediterranean Diet Cookbook: A Delicious Alternative for Lifelong Healthy by Nancy Harmon Jenkins. Copyright © 1994, 2009 by Nancy Harmon Jenkins. Published by Bantam Dell, a division of Random House, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this excerpt may be reproduced or reprinted without permission in writing from the publisher

Nancy Harmon Jenkins is a food writer with a passionate interest in Mediterranean cultures and cuisines, sustainable agriculture, and farm-to-market connections. Author of half a dozen highly acclaimed cookbooks, she writes for the New York Times, Saveur, and Food & Wine, and divides her time between her farmhouse outside of Cortona, Italy, and the coast of Maine.


Epicurious.com © Condé Nast Digital, Inc. All rights reserved.
